Resolve sign-in errors in Teams

    Article
    03/31/2022
    2 minutes to read

    Applies to:
        Microsoft Teams

Note

This feature requires a Microsoft 365 administrator account. 
This feature isn't available for Microsoft 365 Government, Microsoft 365 operated by 21Vianet, or Microsoft 365 Germany.

If your users encounter errors when they try to sign in to Microsoft Teams, use the following steps to troubleshoot the problem:

    Run the Teams Sign-in diagnostic:
        Select the following button to populate the diagnostic in the Microsoft 365 admin center:

        In the User Name or Email Address field, enter the email address of the user who's experiencing the Teams sign-in issue.

    If the diagnostic detects an issue that affects the instance of Teams on the tenant, follow the provided solution to fix the issue. 
    If the diagnostic doesn't detect an issue, check whether the user's Teams client is running the latest update. Select the Settings and more menu next 
    to the user's profile picture at the top right of the Teams window, and then select Check for updates.

    The desktop app is configured to update automatically. However, if you find that the app is missing the latest update, follow the instructions 
    to install it, and try again to sign in. If you still see an error when you try to sign in to Teams, go to step 3.

    If you use a federated sign-in provider such as Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS), verify the AD FS sign-in configuration by using 
    the Office 365 Single Sign-on Test in the Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer.

    Check the error code on the Teams sign-in screen. If the code is listed here, follow the provided guidance to fix the error. 
    If the code isn't listed here, see Why am I having trouble signing in to Microsoft Teams?

        0xCAA82EE7 or 0xCAA82EE2
        Make sure that the user has Internet access. 
        Then, use the Network assessment tool to verify that the network and network elements between the user location
        and the Microsoft network are configured correctly. This is necessary to enable communication to the IP addresses and ports 
        that are required for Teams calls.

        For information about endpoints that users should be able to reach if they're using Teams in Office 365 plans, 
        government environments, or other clouds, see Office 365 URLs and IP address ranges.


        0xCAA20004
        This error occurs if an issue affects conditional access. For more information, see Conditional Access policies for Teams.


        0xCAA70004 or 0xCAA70007, or if the sign-in issue also occurs in other Office applications: See Connection issues in 
        sign-in after update to Office 2016 build 16.0.7967.
        

    If the sign-in error occurs only in the Teams web client, 
    see Microsoft Teams is stuck in a login loop for resolutions that are specific to the user's preferred browser.
    

    If the error persists, reinstall Teams as follows:
        Uninstall Teams.
        Browse to the %appdata%\Microsoft folder on the user's computer, and delete the Teams folder.
        Download and install Teams. If possible, reinstall Teams as an administrator. 
        To do this, right-click the Teams installer file, and select Run as administrator.
        

If none of these steps help to resolve the Teams sign-in issue, create a support request. For the request, collect debug logs,
and provide the error code that's displayed on the Teams sign-in screen.
